# extract_trip_data.py
## A Script for Extracting Trip Data from Uber Receipts in Portuguese

### Description

This script is extremely simple and short. I created it with the specific intention of automating the process of collecting basic trip data from the PDF receipts generated by Uber, and putting them into an Excel workbook file (XLSX).

### Prerequisites

1. [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
2. [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/getting_started.html)
3. [PyPDF2](https://pypi.org/project/PyPDF2/)

### Instructions

1. **Move** *extract_trip_data.py* to the folder containing the Uber receipts that you want to parse. The folder should not contain any other files apart from extract_trip_data.py and the PDFs.
2. **Execute** *extract_trip_data.py* with Python. One simple way you can do this in Windows is by right-clicking *extract_trip_data.py* and selecting *Open with Python*.
3. If the script executed successfully, then a file named *trip_data.xlsx* should appear in the folder. When you open this spreadsheet, you should be able to see all of the trip data from the PDFs.

### Background

Every month, I have to compile an expenses report for the Uber trips that I take for work. Unfortunately, Uber does not provide a simple means of collecting the data from your journeys, apart from downloading the receipts as PDFs from the website. I believe there is an option for businesses to download this data as a spreadsheet, but it's not available to regular users.

So, every month, I would download the receipts, look through the PDFs and copy and paste the total values for the trips into an Excel spreadsheet. On average, this could take thirty minutes, sometimes more. To complicate things further, my wife has to do the same thing as well. Every time we had to do it I thought to myself, "There has got to be a better way than this." And apparently, there is!

### Limitations

Firstly, the Uber receipts I have been working with are in Portuguese, as they have been downloaded from the Uber website in Brazil. Since my first language is English, I had to add a line in the script to convert the decimal comma in the currency to decimal points. If you want to keep the decimal commas, then you'll need to remove that line.

Secondly, it is likely that, at some point, Uber will change the format of its receipts. If, or when, this happens, it may cause the lines that use the string find method to select unprecedented portions of the string.

### Applicability

If you have to extract data from PDFs routinely, and you'd like to use Python as a way of automating your work, this script may give you some ideas on how (or how not) to do that. Naturally, if you also use Uber and want to automate the process of extracting data from your receipts, then, with a little tweaking, this script could work well for you.
